Much of the talk leading up to next month's "Star Wars: The Force Awakens" premiere is the lack of Luke Skywalker in trailers and posters for the film.

But Director J.J. Abrams and Luke himself, Mark Hamill, addressed his absence in an interview with Entertainment Weekly.

“No one forgot about him!” Abrams said of the man who once brought back balance to the Force. “We were hoping people would care, but there are a lot of things that are not on the poster, as busy as the poster is. Certainly Luke is a very important aspect of the story.”

Read: Harrison Ford: How Han Solo Has Changed Since Original 'Star Wars'
Related: Don't Call Princess Leia 'Princess' Anymore
The movie will actually answer the question of where Luke is, according to EW. Another question also might be answered.

"Who is Luke Skywalker? Like, who?" Abrams told the magazine.

It's been decades since the release of "Return of the Jedi," and in "The Force Awakens," Luke's story is not that of the savior to the likes of a young Finn, played by John Boyega, who grew up as a stormtrooper for The First Order.

"He’s been taught about Luke Skywalker, he knows about his history," Boyega said. "For him it’s like joining the army and then learning about one of the great enemies of your country. It has that effect on him. But in terms of the Force, and the magical stuff that happens, that is the point where Finn kind of questions what is what. What is the Force, what part does Luke Skywalker play in all of this?”

But with that said, Finn ends up with Luke's family lightsaber. This weapon, lost down an air shaft during Luke's initial battle with Vader, holds the key to a lot of the mystery around Luke and the movie, EW added.

As for Hamill himself, he said it's hard to having to avoid revealing spoilers to children when they ask.

"Because they don’t understand non-disclosure agreements, they just want to know what’s going on. It’s not been easy, but the wait will soon be over," he told the magazine.

"The Force Awakens" hits theaters on Dec. 18.